ariadne's thread,"until reading ariadne's thread, i had only been exposed to books on witchcraft that followed the more wiccan traditions. this workbook opened my eyes to alternate magical beliefs and showed me that i could cut my own spiritual path, rather than trying to force my magic into rigid practices that weren't working for me.$ loved this book! accidentally found it after accidentally finding shekhinah's cool womanrunes system. enjoying reading older books on goddess spirituality lately. lots of great stuff to be gleaned from less well-known works.$shekhinah mountainwater is clearly an intelligent writer. she proposes theories, ideas, and concepts related to a matriarchal and woman-centric spirituality through a well-reasoned, articulate lens. at the same time, she intersperses her clearly female-centric, anti-patriarchy agenda with evidence she has gathered from works of fiction as frequently as from works of evidence. on the one hand, this type of evidence could be said to spring from the sacred well of intuition that has been usurped and sullied by patriarchal forms of scholarship. that is, folklore, which was often a medium for extending scholarship through narrative, has been denigrated to whimsy and fairy stories by the modern-day institutions of academia, while self-perpetuating historical analyses that reference and reflect only other (and perhaps popular) forms of scholarship are seen as somehow more real. as an academic, i tend to temper my view of scholarship through the lens of both/and in that it would be foolish of me to presume that folk-derived evidence is somehow inaccurate to its roots whereas science is the only truth.if that were the case, well. perhaps pluto is a planet? i mean, i have never been there myself, so.$ found this book in the library when i was eleven. my first introduction to paganism. i ordered it for myself last year when i found it online, for sentimental value and to attempt reading it again."
a book of one's own,"good book. well-written. all about the different types of diarists and dairy purposes, including chronicling, traveling, apologizing, and creating, to name a few. he weaves together each chapter with samples and narratives about famous and not-so famous diaries. for example, anne frank is discussed at length at the end of the book. i learned a lot from this book, and seeing that i myself am primarily a diarist, it was good reading. i consider myself to be the type of diarist that creates an alternate world to the one i am living in. the more i read my own diary, the more i see myself in all my various moods and forms. i see my obsessions and my habits.$i really enjoyed this overview of more than one hundred diaries. mallon groups the diaries into categories of writers and their circumstances and shows that diaries can serve many purposes. some record travels, others confinement, some religious development and others creative, some are used to argue a point of view whilst others are used as cofessionals.$i really loved this book. mallon is definitely a bit of a wordy intellectual, and can overanalyze (almost to the point of cruelty) some of the diaries and diarists. he often assumes too much of the reader, dropping names and events for context that don't always come to my little mind. with that said, though, this is a wonderful look inside the different people and different reasons people write in journals and diaries. mallon has read (at least!) dozens of diaries and there are enough direct quotes from them to satisfy our voyeuristic nature! he also has points of extreme tenderness when it is obvious that mallon understands what it is to write you heart down on paper. he is quite witty at times, and laughs with us at the ridiculous, and admires the amazing and cradles the vulnerable.$this book is a survey of diaries, divided into types of diary keepers. among them are those who record the events of their time and their own adventures, those who keep track of ideas, and those who create a world to live in because they cannot live fully in the physical world. mallon is a charming guide. he has made an effort to supply us with metaphors stretched almost to the point of goofiness. $a fun read indeed! conversational, witty, erudite, as interested in the diaries of famous poets as those of their overshadowed spouses and siblings. mallon slips through the pages of chroniclers, travelers, pilgrims, creators, confessors, prisoners, and apologists with ease, contributing empathetic, critical, and humorous commentary. at the very least, peruse the introduction!$i love reading people's journals and diaries. i have kept a journal or a diary my entire life but not faithfully, daily but scattered. i started this book, again, and instantly had the urge to underline. i resisted for a chapter or two and then went back and started reading from the beginning and underlined everything that appealed and also made a list of all the diarists listed so i could check out their books or mark the ones already read in my lifetime. $"
a life of one's own by joana field,"the author explores over a period of seven years the things that made her happy. the book seems so deep like one of those studies in psychoanalysis. for some reason i feel that jung would have made excellent use of her book as a case study in consciousness, unconsciousness, and psychoanalysis. i could see jungian thinking in her comparison of thinking as a male and thinking as a female and how we seem to have both in us.$i loved this book. ""joanna field"" (marion milner) does a great job of revealing her insights on her path to personal discovery in incredible (yet somehow not yawn-inducing) detail.one of the most fascinating things that i pulled from reading ""a life of one's own"" was that her conclusions about certain mindsets and behaviors seem to draw upon eastern ways of thinking.a lot$outstanding! an engaging record of self-discovery through the author's exploration of her own thought processes, begins by asking questions about what would make her happy. notion of ""blind thinking,"" efforts to pay attention and train one's thoughts, extension of understanding to appreciation and personal relationships. body awareness through breathing exercises and relaxation informs the journey.$the journey of self-discovery is exactly that = self. one cannot simply take the words, actions and knowledge from another and transfer it to one' own life. the journey must be internalized and personalized. just as with reading literature, we all take from it our own perceptions (good or bad) and weave the piece of literature into our own lives. $this is one of the most introspective books i have ever read, though painstaking at times, but marion milner's insights into her own life and mind rae profound. it was originally published in 1934, but her life experience feels so similar to anyones. marion milner writes this wholly from her own life experience, trying to answer the questions,$it was a difficult book for me to get into at first. i would keep putting it down and picking it up, i was determined to finish it!the diary like entries and writing were not my cup of tea. i did warm to the concept and the book did provoke me to think about the concepts and taking the time to reflect. $"
a tale of the ragged mountains,"i am glad i read this. an idiosyncratic tale with a twilight zone-like atmosphere.towards the end i started to realize that what happened is all about reincarnation — getting a glimpse of the past.it could also be a different thing altogether. what if it was just the influence of drugs that he began to experience all that? $this story is very vague. i like it because there are a bunch of possible explanations for the ending that are running through my mind but. it's difficult for me to really figure out an explanation though because the story is just a bit too vague.$i love poe, but this is not one of his best. the story has definite potential, but it's too easy to spot the ending (or at least most of the ending) way ahead of time. being only four and half pages long, it feels a lot like a work in progress.$interesting story. not like most of his stories. i enjoyed it near the end, though the beginning struggled to keep my interest.$this was an interesting story about reincarnation or something. i was a little confused to be honest.$"
a voice of her own,"reviewed by cat for teensreadtoo.com.despite a huge body of work and lifetime's worth of correspondence she left behind, emily dickinson remains an enigma in many people's minds. why was she so preoccupied with death? why did she choose to not marry in an era when most women did so to the exclusion of all other pursuits? what drove her to write more than one thousand poems, yet never seek publication for her work?i finished this one out of sheer force of will and desire to be done with it. had i not been reading this for a class i would have put it down. there just wasn't much of a plot, it was just moments of emily dickinson growing up. yes, there was the overarching theme of her developing her identity as a poet, but that was it. the book didn't build up to anything; it just kind of was. i realize that real life is not always as adventurous as the books i like to read and emily's growing up years may have been rather average, but that doesn't mean it has to be boring. laura ingllas led a typical pioneer life, but her little house on the prairie books are excellent. something is always happening and you grow attached to the characters. i couldn't connect to emily or anyone else in the book and it moved so slowly.$despite a huge body of work and lifetime's worth of correspondence she left behind, emily dickinson remains an enigma in many people's minds. why was she so preoccupied with death? why did she choose to not marry in an era when most women did so to the exclusion of all other pursuits? what drove her to write more than one thousand poems, yet never seek publication for her work?$the form of first-person narrative seems totally appropriate for an actress, accustomed to taking on a role, to adopt as a writer. this memoir is totally believable - it does seem to capture dickinson's voice and likely thoughts: the frequent use of exclamation points, the quiet personal confession of pride or jealous feelings, the astonishment at even little things in the natural world. i appreciate its presentation as fictional. $i loved the language of the novel and a lot of the imagery, but that only carried me through the first third of the book. after that, the plot seemed to go in circles, never really going anywhere. i guess that's inevitable when you are writing about someone's life (you can't just make stuff up, after all, and in real life there's no tidy story arc, with a climax at just the right point), but after a while, it got old. i wanted to say, ""okay, get to the point already. what, you don't have one?!""$"
an obedient father,"this is an easy-to-read, very difficult book. sharma does not shy away from the ugliest, most difficult subjects but writes about them so fluidly that you find yourself going along at a steady clip, jaw dropping wider and wider. much like the subjects of abuse in this book, the reader at times can feel like he's in an abusive relationship he just can't pull away from. that's not meant to demean or minimize actual abuse victims suffer. it's only meant to highlight how deftly sharma captures abuse of all kind (institutional, familial, cultural, structural) and grabs your attention with it.$despite this book's horrific subject manner, there was a bit of genius in the writing. while the reader is inside the head of the main character, who, to put it nicely, is a vile man, the reader both loathes and somehow can feel some pity for him, once all of his sins catch up with him. while reading this, you know everything he has done is reprehensible but, because you are reading it from his perspective, you almost feel sorry for him when he gets what he pretty much deserves. getting the reader to feel this way is pretty remarkable. the author was able to keep this balance because he allowed us inside ram's daughter's head as well (and allowing us to get out of ram's head made it a bit easier to read). it is interesting to read the political and cultural piece to this as well. sadly, it was interesting in a psychological aspect because it shows the reader why some families stay together, despite abuse this despicable and the result it can have on keeping the victim a victim and how that plays out with the next generation. the end tied it all together as well. it was a difficult book to read and phantom. if it weren't so well written, i am not sure if i could have finished. it is not for the weak of heart.$this is not an easy book to review;nor is it easy to read. the main character, an overweight alcoholic, political crook and child molester, tells most of the story from his point of view. although he is mostly a vile man, there are some times you forget yourself and feel some sympathy towards him.he molests his oldest daughter, anita, when she was 12. twenty years later, anita is a widow with a young daughter of her own. she is forced to take her daughter and move in with her father, who she has grown to hate deeply.  she is increasingly paranoid that he may attempt to molest her daughter. amidst this story are stories of political corruption and intrigue that her father is involved in. i enjoy indian fiction, and although this novel is a little crazy at times, i love sharma's writing. his characters are so well drawn that i can practically picture them.$the write-up on the back of the edition that i read describes sharma's protagonist as a bit of a dostoevskyian anti-hero. this makes sense: sharma gives us a corrupt, alcoholic, child-molesting bureaucrat as the vehicle through which most of the story is told. and-call me old fashioned-this makes the story just that much harder to get through; any time you have a protagonist so wretched, so miserable, so abhorrent that you are viscerally—even physically—angered by them. well, good luck finishing; you are unlikely to enjoy the story.""
